Well, welcome back, everyone, to the Data Science Hangout. If you're joining for the
first time, it's great to meet you. I'm Rachel, and I'm the host. As I mentioned last week,
it's really nice to be able to share some space with everyone right now. So we do want
to reiterate and share again some of the avenues to help those that are affected by the war
in Ukraine that have been shared by Viola and Sep, but also ask others to share in the
chat as well. Thank you, everyone. If this is your first Hangout, this is an open space
for the whole data science community to connect and chat about data science leadership, questions
you're facing, what's going on in the world of data science. So we want to create spaces
where everybody can participate and we can hear from everyone. There's three ways to
ask questions, probably more. You can jump in live and raise your hand on Zoom. You
can put questions in the Zoom chat, and feel free to put a star next to it if you want
me to read it out loud, if it's maybe loud where you are or something like that. But
we also have a Slido link where you can ask questions anonymously, and our team will share
that in the chat in just a second here. Just like to reiterate that we love to hear from
everyone, no matter your level of experience or area of work, too. But with all of that,
I'm so happy to be joined by my co-host for today, Christy Angel. Christy is a senior
data scientist, interview coach, and data science mentor at what says on the website
Grubhub, and Zach already stole it from me, but congratulations are in order for your
new role now at SitchFix. So Christy, I'd love to have you introduce yourself and maybe
share a little bit about your role.
Sure. Thanks for that, Rachel. So yes, I'll be joining SitchFix on their A-B experimentation
platform team. I probably shouldn't preface that with A-B because I'm assuming it does
a little bit more than just A-B testing, but I don't quite know yet. So we'll see. TBD.
But as you might imagine, my background is specialized in experimentation, data science,
and inference, causal inference. I started in experimentation back in 2016, right after
I graduated with my master's in statistics. I started at Groupon, and at the time, web-based
experimentation was not what it was today, I'll tell you that. I remember right before
I interviewed for my first job, I Googled, you know, optimize experimentation, web experimentation,
and found very little information, and now it's everywhere. So I feel like I kind of
lucked into a little niche. That said, in my free time, there are several other things
that I do to contribute to the data science community. One of those things is that I am
a data science mentor through a boot camp called Thinkful. This boot camp, I mentor
data scientists and data analysts. The thing that's unique about this particular program
is that we pair students with mentors in addition to their full-time or part-time curriculum
that they choose. So they really get to work with somebody in industry, understand how
data science is actually applied, and how that's different than a classroom environment.
And then the other thing that I've been a little bit more focused on recently is interview
coaching for that same student population. So I primarily work with data analysts and
data science graduates from boot camp programs, and I conduct mock interviews with them, because
a lot of these students and candidates are fresh out of this boot camp. They might be
career pivoters. They could be PhD students who are looking to bridge some skills gaps.
They might also be just right out of undergrad, or maybe they didn't go to college at all.
I actually had a student recently who was in the military, and then he came out and
did a boot camp. And so there are just a lot of different needs, but I would say there's
also a lot of anxiety around the mystery of what comprises a technical interview.
And so I think one of my favorite parts is just getting people to a place where they're feeling
confident in their interviewing ability, and that is a lot of just recognizing that anxiety
that's there. So yeah, and then that's all I do.
Awesome. Thanks, Kristi. While we're waiting for questions to come in from everyone, I'd love to
learn a little bit more about that, and maybe some of the tips that you share with people
when you're coaching them for interviews, or how you help them get over that anxiety.
Excuse me. Absolutely. So I think one of the first things that I always like to do is just
kind of put out my feelers. And the way that I do that is I come right out and say,
if you're anything like me, I am a nervous interviewer. I just put it right out on the
table and make it okay to fess up and say, me too. That way we can just kind of talk about the
elephant in the room and bring the level down a little bit. I also think that my interview style
it matches the interview style that I like to be interviewed with, which is conversational.
It's collaborative. And I'm not going to ask questions like, guess what number I'm thinking.
I do want to understand your thought process, but if you get stuck, I'm not going to leave you to
struggle. I'm going to nudge you forward. And really, it doesn't take a lot. But I think
realizing that that's all it is for people is really, really helpful. Because I think they
get caught up in this data science universe where it's like, well, they could ask me anything.
They could, but they're probably going to focus on the job description and your resume.
So let's narrow the focus and just bring it down a little bit.
Do people do that then when they get to their interview?
I have seen a lot of success. I really, really have. I offer all of the students that I interview
to connect with me on LinkedIn and keep me posted. Some do, some don't. And that's okay. But
I love seeing my success stories. There was a candidate that came in to me a couple months ago.
And I had to escalate, actually, because I got about 15 minutes into this mock interview.
And I realized that this person was going through some real trauma. He had signaled a couple of
times, like, I've been working so hard for so long, or I've just been struggling for so long.
And it really struck a chord with me because I also come from a background where I kind of had
to bootstrap myself up a bit. I was a waitress for 20 years while I put myself through school.
I'm the first person in my family to graduate from high school.
There are some days where, you know, on my path, it was really, really hard. And so when he said
that, it just connected with me. And I put my interview notes away. And I was like, this is a
different conversation that we have to have. And so, you know, we talked about it. And he had this,
I didn't want to call it imposter syndrome, because I think it's more than that.
But it turned out he didn't have a college degree. And he had military experience. And he was afraid
that by submitting his application and getting through an applicant tracking system that he was
automatically going to be bounced away. And I said, that's fine. That might be true. But that's
not what we're going to do. Because that's not how you're going to get a job. You know, and we talked
about it. And I spent supposed to spend an hour on the phone with this kid. I spent an hour and a
half talking him through it. And I said, I think about halfway through, I'm like, you've got yourself
a mentor, like, I'm just married to this right now. But two weeks later, he got a job, he just
needed a confidence boost. There's other people, they need to work on some SQL skills, you know,
but being able to identify those weaknesses early on really sets them up for success in a good way.
That's amazing. But it brings up a point I know we had talked about earlier as well.
When people don't have degrees, and they're kind of hitting that roadblock in recruiting and not
getting through to the hiring manager, what can we all do to change that?
That's interesting, because I did have another student. She is one of the most tenacious,
hardest workers, committed learners. I mean, she would run laps around me. I was so
amazed at her tenacity. And she was going to, I mean, she was going to Grace Hopper,
she was going to all the conferences, talking to as many people as she could talk to,
doing everything right. But she had a political science degree. And I think, you know, she was
tie-eyed and talking to a lot of big tech companies, not really realizing there were other
avenues. But she was getting shot down automatically by a lot of companies,
because they were saying that she didn't have a STEM degree. And I was really frustrated. Like,
part of me was like, I want to find out who those recruiters are, because I thought those
same companies said that we don't need degrees anymore. And so I feel like there's this like,
you know, a misalignment of, well, what do we want from our data scientists? And also,
I think there's sincerely a knowledge gap in some recruiting teams that we can help with, too.
And that's something that I always try to do, because I end up going to all the college recruiting
events that I can, but just educating your recruiters on what different flavors of data
science looks like, and where they might come from. I absolutely love what's happening in the
chat right now. Everybody's sharing their majors as well. Yeah, no social science. I love working
with social science teachers. I was I was a stats grad student, but I have a lot of
sociology PhD envy, I'll admit that.
Does anybody have experience with, like working directly with the recruiting team at your company
to kind of say, like, hey, this is something we might want to look past here and change the way
we're doing it. The company I work for State Space Labs is, I think, unusual. The founder himself
is the first person in his family to have a college degree, you know, bounced through several
community colleges, you know, ended up with a PhD in neuroscience. So, you know, this is coming
from the top down, as you can imagine. So the idea of what degree you have is pretty much irrelevant
at the company. You know, whether it's somebody who's being hired for engineering or data science
or anything. We have plenty of people with military backgrounds. There are people with
high school degrees who work at the company. But I fully understand that this is really, really
unusual. And, you know, I think we're lucky that we have the CEO that we have. And I'm not I'm not
sure how you convince people that, you know, it's really not just okay to look past the degree,
but probably a really good idea in many cases that you need diversity of thought and background
in order to, especially if your company has a consumer facing product and you want
the company as a whole to have empathy for end users. I think it's really important to have
a really varied set of life experience backgrounds. But yeah, I'm not really sure
how you convince people at a more traditional company that it's a good idea.
That's awesome that your company does that though, Jenny. I love that. Yeah.
Does anyone else have thoughts on on this topic? Oh, I see. Matias, you have your hand raised.
Want to jump in? So we are a small startup in the women's health space. And we kind of look
beyond degrees in a lot of ways. A lot of our most senior data science people
have like a biology degree or something like that. Right. And it's really more about what
they've done in their previous jobs, because we need them to be effective from day one.
But for the more junior folks, it's kind of difficult. Right. So what we find is a lot of
people with degrees, even if they have a degree, they're not very good. Right. But when you're
more junior and then on top of that, you don't have a degree. We just don't find a lot of talent.
Right. We don't find a lot of people that are very good with that. Right. It's not like we would be
opposed to that. But the degree and the experience gives you a little bit of a certification. Right.
It's a little bit easier to say, like, OK, these are the people that we should talk to, because,
you know, in the startup, there's always more to do than you have time. Right. So if you go really
in depth with like five candidates or 10 candidates, that's a lot of drain on the organization. Right.
So you're trying to use these degrees as a little bit of a filter to see who we can talk to quickly.
I think that's a good call out in the startup space in particular. It's a little bit different
of a situation because, like you said, you need people who can be effective from day one, hit the
ground running. And in that case, maybe that's where interns come in at a certain maturity
once you get there. But, you know, it's definitely one of those things where, you know,
when you can take on a junior level person, I mean, we still have to hire junior level people
because we're all going to get older. It's just not a sustainable model if we don't.
And I love seeing certain organizations that do that intentionally think about, like,
the bandwidth that they have to be able to train in-house. And
I've seen some companies launch programs successfully to do that.
I see there's a few other hands raised to Mike. Do you want to jump in?
Yeah, thanks. I wanted to ask Christy about, well, first, if I can make a comment and then
ask a question. Comment is you clearly are helping candidates and kind of training them
how to do interviews. Are you also training interviewers? Because, you know, I think a lot
of interviewers could do with a bit of skills. I agree with that 100 percent. So when I was
at Groupon, my job before my last job, GovHub, that was something that I was involved in.
Towards the end, I was working. We had, similar to Amazon, we had what we called a bar raiser
program. And so one of the things that I wanted to see happen, I helped to ensure that all
interview loops had a diverse representation from the interviewers. That was something that
was happening at a certain level above or above at one point or on my team, because I would track
down the recruiter and insist on it. But the other thing that we were working on is extending the bar
raiser training program more broadly to some of those core principles and tenets to all interviewers
because interviewing is hard. I mean, I think I got thrown into it when I first started doing it.
So I always interview from the perspective of kind of an interviewee is, you know,
how do I want to be treated? And I think that makes it hard for me. It's one of those things
that I still to this day second guess is that external validity. It's like, was it me or was
it my question or was it the candidate? And that's not a good place to be in because this is someone's
livelihood that you're that you're handling. And I take it very seriously. So I think that you're
right. We all need to learn to become better interviewers. It's I think that we make these
really complicated frameworks for interviewing when really, you know, if we just had some
what's the word I'm looking for? Thoughtful and meaningful conversations with people about what
they've done and what they know and how they think about things. And we might get further.
It'd be really nice to hear, you know, what are the kinds of conversation starter questions or,
you know, things that because as an interviewer, you want to get a feel for whether that person
has skill or even just personality to deal with the job you're interviewing for,
you know, what are good starter questions that, you know, open them up to kind of go, right,
you know, give me the information, but let's do it in a way that isn't challenging or,
you know, difficult, if you know what I mean. I mean, it's supposed to be a little difficult,
but it's more, as you say, it's a kind of, you know, come on, just tell me.
So, yeah, I mean, the first thing you want to do is you want to try to put a maze and develop some
trust really quickly. And I wish I could explain to you how to do that. But I was a waitress for
20 years. And so that's, that's literally the job is, you know, hi, table, how are you? And in three
seconds, I have to assess. Are you hungry, grouchy, happy, like, you know, whatever, what kind of
mood are you in? You know, and read the room. So I don't, I don't know how to practice trial and
error, making mistakes. Yeah. I've had that before in interviews, it's like, was I just really
drained and being awkward at starting conversation? Or was it just that we weren't, weren't connecting?
Yeah, I think it was, maybe it was me. But I'm so glad that we have like panels,
though, because then you can kind of corroborate the evidence. And yeah, definitely.
Zach, I see you have your hand raised, too. Do you want to jump in?
Yeah, I was just coming from some that's, as I said, I don't go to university in the UK,
I believe Mike is also from the UK. We have something called apprenticeship. So you do
four days working one day learning. But the qualification isn't seen in the same way.
Basically, I, you basically just get 18 months to years of experience. And that's how you set
yourself rather than the qualification. But I have coming from some that, as I said, I know that
from the position I put myself in, I didn't want to go to university. So I know I have to work
harder. So I deal with these external stuff, and competitions and all that stuff.
Like build shiny dashboards, models. But yeah, it's the, it's the instant rejection and all this,
which I felt like sounds like I completely understand it. If they're getting 100 or so
applicants, or 200, no one's going to be able to go through that they have to have a minimum
requirement. Or, yeah, as, as Mateo said, it's just going to spend someone's going to spend
their entire week looking at one job, or two weeks, depending on how big it is. So I completely
understand that. So which is why I've started looking at smaller companies, because they're
more likely to take a chance to take a risk, have less applicants. So someone's going to be able to
spend looking at it. And then hopefully, once they go, actually, it's an interesting portfolio,
and get myself into that. So that's what I've been looking, I've only been looking for about
two weeks now. So it's not like I'm expecting lots. But yeah, that's the way that I'm approaching it.
I'm sure other people have got other ways that they're looking at it. So yeah, just someone
someone that's in this for a different perspective.
Yeah, that's great perspective, Zach. And great that you're doing all those contests and stuff,
too, like Big Data Bowl, I know we mentioned, but Javier, I see you had your hand raised, too.
Do you have something to weigh in on this topic?
Yeah, I kind of had a question for Christy, just to follow up to all these discussions.
Because I've experienced this myself, two occasions in my career, in my life.
Years back, I was super unhappy in a job. And, you know, I was so busy with that job,
that finding interviews or getting interviews, applying for jobs felt exhausting.
And kind of like a parallel to this, I eventually quit that job and went back to grad school,
because I was like, okay, I'm not getting the types of jobs I want.
You know, I was reading and learning all about predictive modeling without even really knowing
what it was. I was just very interested in the way people were presenting on this topic.
So I went back to grad school, and I experienced like, significant interview fatigue. I mean,
the first month or two were very exciting, you know, you're applying to positions.
But after a while, it's, it becomes sort of taxing, because you're like, okay, I have to
sound excited about this job. Like, it no longer becomes fun on a regular basis to interview and
learn about these companies. Do you have, I don't know what the right answer is. Like, I've thought
about this a lot. But do you have any guidance for people that are, you know, students who are
kind of feeling this fatigue, or just people unhappy in their current job? Or, you know,
like Zach, not to put you on the spot, but someone like Zach trying to break into the
into the space and applying, you know, position after position?
Yeah. Um, I mean, I'll, I'll tackle the breaking into the space piece first,
because I think it's, it's sort of a slightly different problem. I recommend to all of my
mentees, like, like I mentioned, the fellow who didn't have a college degree either,
when I said, we're not going to go through applicant tracking systems, what I meant was,
we're going to network and I don't like the word networking, because I think it automatically puts
people at kind of like, Oh, I don't want to do that. But utilize LinkedIn as a social media,
a professional social media site. You know, find people who are generating content that you find
compelling and interesting. You know, find your tribe. Once you find your tribe, you know,
or as you begin finding your tribe, engage, they're going to start knowing who you are by
your comments and your feedback and your ideas that you're contributing. And then, believe it
or not, you're going to start building a reputation for yourself. I mean, it's just how
human relationships work. You don't mean to be doing it, but you just being you, that's what
happens. That's how I got my job at Stitch Fix. Honestly, I had followed my new boss, Eric Weber,
on LinkedIn for some time. I really align with his style of leadership. When I think about the
kind of leader that I want to be, I want to be like Eric. And so we stayed connected. Now I'll
address the other question that you had, Javier, which was, you know, the interview fatigue.
And I can speak to this personally, because I was laid off in 2020 due to COVID in April.
In fact, I had the great fortune of graduating in 2010 during the housing market crash,
not knowing what I wanted to do. And then, yeah, anyways, interview fatigue. I interviewed for
seven months in 2020. I was planning to leave Groupon and move on to my next journey,
or the next step in my journey. You know, I think I had already been planning that at the beginning
of 2020. And then once I started applying and COVID started, the rug just got pulled out from
underneath me because the entire market changed. Where I thought I had a leg up, all of a sudden
got very, very competitive. And then also what was happening behind the scenes that made it
incredibly frustrating was that different positions were being combined or pulled because
nobody knew where the pandemic was going to go. So talk about frustration. I made it all the way
through full rounds with Pinterest twice, and I think five times with Facebook in a matter of a
couple of months. So I get fatigued. But I think personally, what I can say is when I finally
felt the most successful or the most at ease was when I just gave into it. You know, it's like,
okay, I've done all the hard work. I've prepared all I can prepare. You know,
now I just, like, I just have to show up and be the most authentic me that I can be.
Like, I just need to bring her along for the ride. Because if she shows up,
then I'm good. But that's where the problem comes. It's like, can I, is she going to come today?
You know, so I think it's just making sure that you're taking care of yourself
enough so that you can be there. I think the other thing is just being really candid and honest with
your recruiting partners. I think people forget that they are your partners. And so always advocate
for yourself with your recruiters. If you wake up on the day of your interview, and like you're in
a panic attack, or, you know, like, any number of things that could happen these days, right?
Don't there's no shame in rescheduling. They want your best self to show up to they want you to get
the job. They don't want to continue continue interviewing forever. They have work that they
want to do. And they want you to come along and do the work too. So just I think, for me, that was
that was what really unlocks progress for me. And, and it helps. It helps bring joy back into it
because it helped me connect with my why.
Okay, Chrissy, I can see in the chat, too. It's resonating with a lot of people and I,
I love I can't read the chat right now. But I love seeing you all talking to each other.
I want to make sure to get to some of the anonymous questions that were asked you and
this is actually a follow up to the question now. But how do you stay motivated and optimistic
while looking for a job after like a certain number of rejections or ghosting from a company?
The first thing I do, there's, there's a couple of things. The first thing I do is, I allow myself
a day to grieve and just feel the way I'm gonna feel. Like I've, I've seen people who can knock
out interviews back to back, you know, and even I've seen people do two final rounds of interviews
in one day. That's not me. I mean, I'm resilient, but like, I also need my space to just to work
through my feelings. So if that's you, that's okay. I have a dog who looks like a Muppet.
He helps a lot. He gets me out of my head when I just want to like curl up in bed. I still got to
take care of him. So that helps. And he's just goofy and he makes me laugh. So that's nice.
Yeah, I gotta be honest, like you really got to hunt for positivity these days.
But where you can find it, take it and just kind of relish in it for a little bit.
Definitely. I see Matthias, you're smiling and raising your hand too.
I just think that's such good advice, right? And I think one thing probably also to always keep in
mind, the people on the other end, the people who hire you are human, right? So A, there's a lot of
people who are also, and I'm sorry to say this over and over again, there's a lot of people who
are not good at their jobs, right? So if they don't hire you, there's a lot of people who don't
do the diligence. They don't put the work in to find the best candidates. So it's not you, right?
I think that's always important to keep in mind. And then when you do work with good people and
they don't hire you, and that's also not a bad thing because if they know what they're doing,
that's also not a bad thing because if they know what they're doing, then they know that you're not
a good fit. That doesn't say anything about you as a person. That just means, hey, in this position,
our assessment is you might not be as successful as you want to be. So, you know, take that. I
know this is like super hard to take it as that, but that is also a positive. Trust them, right?
So if you work with good people, trust their judgment. If you work with bad people, just
brush it off. It doesn't matter. Move on to the next thing. Get your feet in the door.
Once you have the foot in the door, do the best thing you can and build your expertise. That's
at least from the other side, from the side that hires people. I don't know if that matters or not.
Well, and I would add to that, you know, like it can be hard to take the ominous,
not a good fit because it's vague and it's like, well, I thought it was a great fit. You know,
it's not specific. But if you can imagine some realistic scenarios, for example, like, I mean,
I've had not a good fit right now. And when companies are able to give that kind of feedback
where, well, for example, I'll give an example. I interviewed with Netflix in 2020. It was one of
the first interviews that I did because in my mind, I'm like, I'm not going to get that job.
And so I figured it would be a practice interview, right? Well, first of all,
it still feels crappy when Netflix, even if you don't think you're going to get the job when
Netflix tells you no, you're still like, well, if I can't get the job I don't want, how am I going
to get the job I do want? You know, it is a constant mind game and it's a mind game that
you have to outsmart yourself at, really. But I think the other thing is what helped me so much
in this interview round that I just went through, that same recruiter reached back out to me
now a year and a half later, they remember you. And apparently what I didn't know at the time was,
and this is so funny to me, apparently I nailed the statistics round, which I think was the one
that I thought I did the least well in. And it just wasn't as efficient in SQL. And it's like,
well, I mean, yeah, okay. I mean, I can practice SQL drills more, but that was it.
So, I mean, that felt great to know that like I was that close and getting that feedback helps
because you're like, okay, I'm not far off. I am on the right path. People do like, you know,
what I have to contribute, but they just don't need me right now, or they need something slightly
different. Yeah. And if you work with a good company, they're always happy to give you that
feedback, right? If you ask, right? No one likes to have that conversation unprompted, but if you
ask them like, hey, what was it? They will always have constructive feedback there. Yeah.
Kristy, Robert and I were talking a little bit earlier on Slack about like red flags to look
out for when you're interviewing with a company. And I think right now, like we see a lot of
recruiter emails from people and maybe a promises huge salaries or like, how do you decide which
opportunity to take or to interview for out of some of the others?
Yeah. Okay. Hang on. Let me just jot this down because I want to, those are, I think, two
really good questions I want to address separately. So red flags, and then there was,
I'm sorry, what was the second question? How did you decide which opportunity to go after
or to take? Yeah. Okay. So first let's start with red flags. For me, it depends on like what your
values are, right? For me personally, things that I value in a position are, you know,
immediately having that feeling where I can be my authentic self, that like, I feel that natural
ease of communication, maybe sense of humor, some laughter. I want to know that like we can work
together. And I like to work in a fun environment. I like to bring a sense of humor. And so just
making sure that like, we're on the same page there because like, this is what you get. Like
what you see is what you get with me. And I'm very upfront about that. So I'm particular.
I value people with diverse backgrounds. You know, so a diverse team. I value
learning. I value building for the long term. I value innovation. I value, you know,
so I think about my values, and I'm trying to find a team that fits with that.
And I, like, I knew a lot about Eric going in. So that one was a no brainer for me.
In fact, like I approached him because I wanted to work with him before.
So I try to shop for managers. If I'm honest, if I can, I will always shop for a manager.
I will always shop for a manager. And if I feel like I'm not like connecting
culture, like on the same page with in terms of culture, that's where all my questions are
going to go. If I don't get a sense of that from them immediately, I'm going to ask about it. And
my favorite questions is just, can you describe your team culture? Unsurprisingly,
the same person who introduced themselves as a Princeton PhD,
struggled to define their team culture. So, you know, to me, that was a red flag.
I'm trying to think of other like, I look for managers who really care about growing their team
members. I think some managers forget that's part of their job. And that's okay, you know,
because managers also are new managers sometimes, you know, and maybe you're not supported the way
that they need to be supported. But those are the things that I look for. And if I'm not getting a
vibe that that's there, I'm going to keep moving. What factors? So those are some of the factors
that drove my decision. Early on in my job search, I was really torn, because I was unsatisfied where
I was. For no reason other than just like, personally, I think logistics is kind of
boring. It's like a bunch of timestamps. And I want to see like more direct impact on people.
And to me, as someone who's worked on experimentation platforms, the people I
impact are my colleagues, my stakeholders. So I have a special place in my heart for
internal tooling. And I think I, for a long time, I grappled with that point, because
I felt like I wasn't a whole data scientist, because I had never done more algorithmic data
science, or machine learning, I've never put a model into production.
But my last project that my last role was putting together an experimentation training program.
And I got to write, and I got to teach. And I got to just like brain dump all of the things that I
know about experimentation. And I think simultaneously, I've been really struggling
with trying to understand what confidence is, like, at the core, what is confidence.
And I was observing myself just fluidly explaining what experimentation is and how to do it to
non technical people, in a very like plain and simple way. I was like, wait a minute.
This is confidence. I mean, I'm being confident right now. And so I just realized, like,
this is, this is what I know how to do well. And I'm at the point in my life, you know,
I'm not, I don't have enough time to be an expert in everything. And so maybe I just be an expert in
testing, and I can collect more hobbies and do fun stuff on the side and enjoy life.
I love that finding, finding the area that you're confident in. Yeah.
Yeah. There's quite a few anonymous questions, too. I don't want to miss, let me just jump over.
Sorry, I was like going back and forth. Someone had said, I have been working as a data scientist
for three plus years now. But I'm feeling my experience doesn't look valuable to recruit
recruiters, just assuming from low calls. Do you have any suggestions?
Yeah. So when I kind of approached this problem as a data scientist, and I and I think, you know,
if you are, if you're blind, or if you're just kind of cold applying, you know, through company
websites, you know, then you want to target the top of the funnel, maybe take a take a look at
your resume, maybe, maybe see if you can get some resume reviews from colleagues or peers that you
trust, and see, see what their thoughts are, if there's a way that maybe that might be more
effective. But again, I still think that if you can get referrals, or, or your like I said,
your resume into the hands of a hiring manager, there's lots of hiring managers on LinkedIn right
now that are blatantly advertising for roles that they're trying to fill. So take advantage of that.
But if it's not a resume problem, you know, and it really is just a matter of, of thin content,
you know, there's a lot of different ways that you can fill that out. So,
let me think here. I mean, there's definitely projects that you can do on your own.
There are volunteer organizations where you can join as part of a team to do, do projects.
I know Data Science for Social Good has an offshoot, but I can't remember the name of it.
Maybe we can look that up later and share that out. But look for volunteer opportunities.
Because then you have the good fortune of learning from other people as well.
I think going to meetups, particularly the Python and R meetups, if you can,
another really great way to network and form community. But you just try to build communities
of people who are willing to vouch for you and pass your resume along. And I think that's a
to vouch for you and pass your resume along. Because that's, that's the best way.
Yeah, I think. And then, like, in a situation that you're in,
if you have any say about the projects that you're working on, try to be strategic.
See if there's other projects that you think are valuable that someone's working on,
see if you can ask your manager, if you can be a part of that in a small way.
Definitely. That's great, Chrissy. And I can't speak for everybody here on the call, but I love
the community feel of this too. And I'm sure there's a bunch of people on this call right
now who'd be willing to take a look at your resume as well and connect with you. But I do want to say
if anybody is in that position right now, feel free to shoot me an email too. And I'll try and
help you connect with people as well. People reach out all the time on LinkedIn that are on
the other side too. They're hiring for roles and they just can't
find people and there just seems to be this mismatch happening. But yeah, definitely feel
free to reach out to or if anyone wants to put in the chat if you're willing to connect with someone
too. Ismael, I know you had a somewhat similar question too, so I just wanted to see if you had
any other follow-up to add too. Kind of. My question was for data science roles,
I see a lot of requirements for like PhD or master's. And I currently, for example,
have a bachelor's degree and have some experience as a data analyst. So just trying to see what
will be like the best bridge between having a master's to fulfill to that. Like I'm currently
trying to build a GitHub repo very slowly just because life, but other suggestions would be
really appreciated. And thank you. I mean, it sounds to me like you are already,
you know, your head's in the right place and you're thinking of the right things.
I mean, I'll be the first one to note that like I don't have a public GitHub repo.
You know, I choose mentorship and coaching as the way that I contribute. So I don't have a lot of
time for my own projects, which is, I don't know, I have mixed feelings about. But anyways, you know,
I think that. I think that it can be very effective, though, in terms of like showing
what you can do early on and getting yourself from the analyst to the data science position.
You know, there's one like kind of odd habit that I have. At least I think it's odd. Maybe
other people won't. But I have a permanent job search alert in Google Jobs. You know, my what
I'm interested in is experimentation. But, you know, you might be interested in finance or
something different. And so, you know, a couple of keywords and I just have it come to my inbox,
you know, weekly or some cadence. The reason why I do that is because it helps me stay fresh with
what's going on around me, particularly if I'm not in conferences or, you know, I'm not able to
connect with data scientists outside my company. It just helps me keep a finger on the pulse of
what's going on in the industry in terms of skills people are looking for. The way that
data science is kind of starting to form into different subspecialties. And the reason why
I'm recommending that is because of that skills based focus. When you start looking at a lot of
job descriptions, you start to pick up on those patterns. And so you'll start to pick up on what
kind of a data scientist you want to be based on what you like to do. But you also get a better
sense of what kind of skills they're looking for and where you really need to focus in on.
I don't know if that's helpful. It is. No, I appreciate that. It's always good to hear
different points of view because you've got to miss something. Like I was reading a lot from
the chat. I was like, a lot of people had great suggestions too. So.
Thanks, everyone. Jenny, I see you have your hand raised. You want to jump in?
Sure. Thanks. This is about resume review, kind of mentoring slash resume review. So
yesterday, we have a couple of open positions at our company in data science and analytics,
which I will share. But I got forwarded a resume by a friend of a friend saying,
is this person qualified for one of the roles I'm seeing? And so I looked at the
resume and noticed immediately, you know, she had listed the bullet points under each of her
job titles. She was listing them in ascending order of importance or impressiveness. So the
things that were most impressive she was putting last. And she was also in some of her bullet
points, she was sort of being really definite about what she was looking for. And so that was
being really deferential to her colleagues. Like, you know, I've been working under my mentor to do
this or and then I looked at her LinkedIn page and saw there were a bunch of accomplishments and
job responsibilities that were really impressive that were listed on her LinkedIn page. And that
hadn't made it onto her resume. So my answer was, you know, I'm not sure whether or not she's
qualified for this job, but forget about that. She really needs to overhaul her resume. It's not
showing how great she is. And I gave, you know, specific advice, which apparently she really
appreciated. But, you know, it really hit me. What's the like, what's the mechanism for this?
I mean, it just so happened that someone forwarded me the resume and I was nice enough to take 10
minutes to do this, but not everyone is going to do that. And is there, does anyone know of like a
forum? Does our studio have a forum for this? Does our ladies have a forum for this? Because especially
for people who are very uncomfortable with self-promotion, it's just the resume just
reeked of that. And I felt horrible. Yeah. She's just really, you know, really
shooting herself in the foot. And I'm sure it's really common.
I'm not going to lie. I was there myself when I first, when I first started looking for a job
before grad school. Yeah. I just, I didn't, I just didn't get it. You know, like I it's,
it's, it's, it's funny to me now. I will share with people my very first resume that I was using
and, and I show them like where I started. I show them kind of somewhere in the middle
where I was looking for an internship. And then I show them where I am now, you know,
and how it's evolved over time. But, you know, like my, my thought process when I first graduated
was like, well, I have a degree in physics. What else do you want to know? I mean, I can, I can,
I could do anything. Right. It's just so youthfully arrogant. But, but, you know, like,
you gotta, like, I, I take the time because I'm a sucker and I don't say no. And, you know,
I'll, I'll help people like you need to make it easy for people to connect the dots because that
was not obvious to me before. I thought everybody could just connect the dots and they were in my
head or something like that. But like what, what it is to me is indicative of someone who probably
doesn't have a lot of confidence and is probably not in a good, when I see a resume like that,
and then the difference, like that probably tells me they're just not in good culture.
They probably have never experienced good work culture. And I absolutely want to have a
conversation with them and learn more about them, see how they sell themselves. But in terms of like
but in terms of like approaching the wider problem, I really love maybe our ladies supporting
resume reviews as part of some of the chapters, if that's something they're interested in.
You can always tweet at them ideas. I'm sure they're open to it. I'm not organizing right now.
Otherwise, I take it there. There are a lot of preparation companies coming up. But,
you know, at the end of the day, it comes down to people who can afford them,
which doesn't feel great. So, you know, I think that maybe just we all take a vow to lead by
example and, you know, make a call to action on our own networks. Like, are you are you actively
mentoring? Because you should be, you know, it's our responsibility to bring up the data scientists
of the future. And so we all got to chip in on that when we can. Yeah, I did post about this on
our ladies New York City chapter slack. You know, haven't heard anything back. But I'm guessing the
answer is, that's a great idea, Jenny. Why don't you organize that? I know, I know that's the
answer. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. I think that's something that we could probably look into, too, as part of
the data science hangout website, or we'll, we'll chat more about that internally. And Jenny,
maybe I can reach out to you to ask for some more information to also put that into the LinkedIn
group, too. And we can continue the discussion about that there as well. But along with our
ladies, maybe also the R for data science, online learning community slack, good place to do that,
too. Sour is going by super fast. I just want to make sure there aren't questions that I've missed.
I see Justin, you had put one into the chat with a star for me to read. So the question was,
as someone new to this discipline, can you speak about the intersection of social science and data
science? I'm especially interested in understanding which analysis might be most useful to learn as
my company's survey guy slash Milton from office space. That's funny. Surveys are great to know.
Because I think, you know, when you're talking about the intersection of social science
and data science, you start working with UX researchers, so the user experience.
And there are a lot of companies that actually really double down on mixed methods research.
So you have a data scientist, working with a product manager, a designer and a software
development team, and they're a little squad and they they chip away at their corner of the universe.
For example, I know Spotify is one such organization. And anybody who is looking
to learn more about mixed methods research, centerstat.org is a small statistical
group that does stats workshops and the quality is amazing. So I know they have a course available,
highly recommended. I haven't taken it yet, but I plan on it. Network analysis is another one.
I don't think it's used much, right? It's not commonly used, but I can see
more and more usage for network analysis in data science. It's one of those things where,
and you'll see this in some of the courses, because they also have a network analysis course
on center stat. I'm affiliated with them in no way. I just really do love their classes.
But yeah, it's kind of the statistics question of how do you how do you want to model your data?
Do you want to understand it? And network science, network analysis is
really a powerful dimension in that regard. But I think there's also just like a lot of value
in having data scientists who understand or even just thoughtful about the people part of things.
All right. That makes sense.
I appreciate it. Thank you.
You're welcome.
Thanks, Justin. Thanks, Christy. I am scrolling through to see questions from earlier, but just
want to say if anybody is still on and had a question that I didn't see, please feel free
to unmute yourself or raise your hand here and jump in too.
Hi, I have a quick question. Sorry, I'm outside. I only logged in about half an hour ago. Great to
listen. One of the things I've been trying to figure out is how to benchmark your skill sets.
So I've just finished a PhD in neuroscience, dealt with lumber, you know, a lot, you know,
very classical kind of PhD data science. But I just struggle with kind of figuring out how
competent I am or I'm not. And I was wondering if you have any, could you speak to that a little bit?
Thank you.
You're welcome. That's a good question.
I don't, I don't know what this says about me, but I've never asked myself that question.
Um, I don't know. I mean, um,
like, I think that maybe I can just like, you know, like, like, sorry. Yeah. Without
saying just like, you know, without just listing, like, do you know these packages? Have you applied,
you know, have you applied these kind of methods to these kind of like,
that is one way I think to kind of do it. But I was just wondering if there is a better way to kind
of figure out where you lie in the hierarchy of competence in a sense, without that being a
negative way, just in a way it's like, am I six months of training away? Or actually am I like a
mid-level data scientist, but just don't know the right labels outside of my niche?
Yeah. Yeah. You know, like, I kind of, um, I don't want to say
that you're wrong. Um, so I don't want to say that this is like a wrong way to think about things, but
I kind of want to encourage you to think about it a little differently. Um, in the sense that, um,
like if, if, if you're always measuring in absolutes where you are, um, you're just going
to be chasing a moving target forever. That goalpost is, is going to keep moving. There's
going to be more and more and more and more. Um, I mean, even just from the perspective of the
technology front, um, when I started, we were in Hadoop and I still have to like learn the AWS
ecosystem now. And by the time I learned that there will probably be something else and we're
all going to have to rebuild our data infrastructure again. Um, if anybody's panicking, don't, I'm,
I'm being exaggerating, but yeah. So, but my point is, is that, um, I, I like to measure myself a
little bit more relatively, you know? Um, so when I, when I read technical blogs, I'm not
necessarily thinking about my skillset and like, you know, if I'm solid enough in the tidy verse,
what I'm thinking about is what problems does my business need to solve? Do we have the skillset
to solve those? Um, and, um, you know, where are we relative to other comparable companies?
Are they, are they solving the same problems? Are they light years ahead of us? Or like, are,
are we all kind of like figuring things out in the dark and making the same, like similar
decisions? And I've found it's been the latter for the most part along my journey, like going to
conferences and, and talking to people who work in my space, I find we all kind of have the same
struggles. And so to me, that tells me that as a team we're doing all right. Um, I, and that is
what matters to me a little bit more. Um, but I, I also have just kind of this like ominous
confidence or faith. I, I'm not a faith driven person in any way. I'm like, show me,
show me proof. But like, I do have this faith in that, um, you know, if I'm doing,
I'm doing the things that I like, um, if I'm solving problems, um, that are actually impactful,
then I'm doing my job and it doesn't really matter how many packages I know.
That's, yeah, that's a, sorry. That is a, that's a really nice answer. So, um,
that does help. It's just, you know, I think it's finding the balance between
overconfidence and yeah, like, okay, I don't know that, but I could look, give me a week
and I can do that versus be naive. Um, there's something that we can all just do as data
scientists. And I think it's like, we just need to like, we need to stop this toxic, like,
what do you know attitude? Like, because that's not what it's about. You know, one of,
one of the data scientists that I interviewed for, for my new role, she is one of the most
well-respected data scientists in her company. Um, you know, and she comes from a statistics
background and, um, I see it repeatedly that inferential statisticians get judged differently
than, than machine learning data scientists. And it creates all of this, like this conflict
and, and this, like I said, toxicity and it's, it's, it's not a contest. Um,
you know, we all have complimentary skills. We can all learn from each other. Um,
so let's just do that instead of complaining about it or, you know, saying, pitting people
against each other, suggesting one type of data scientist is less than another.
Thank you. Great answer. Thank you, Kirstie.
I just think, uh, when interviewing, whether for data science or any roles,
like willingness to learn and actually meaning it like is the biggest thing above the skills you
already know or the skills you will know. It's just that like you're eager and you want to be
growing into part of the team. Um, so that was, I don't know. That's something that I always
try to get across when I'm interviewing because I know I don't know everything at all.
And I would like to grow in the position that I'm interviewing for.
It's a great point. Kate agreed. I know we are a little bit over here. So I want to see if you
had a few more minutes, Kristie, or do you have to read? I don't have a job right now.
Yeah, let's talk all day. Um, I see there was a question, anonymous question I had missed earlier.
That was, how do you think industry plays a role in data science higher?
Industry plays a role in data science higher,
for example, moving from retail to tech or nonprofit to fintech.
Um, I mean, this is, I don't know, like, I would be curious how other hiring managers
think about this, because this is something that I've, I've definitely struggled up against myself
before I realized that, you know, experimentation is going to be my path.
Moving forward. I did apply for some growth roles and thought it'd be interesting.
So really, like I said, I wanted to connect to that people piece.
But the feedback that I got was they needed someone with growth experience.
Um, and I took that again, as well, they need someone who can hit the ground running. And that
was exactly the feedback that I got. So once they have that first key, like senior hire,
they can hire people that maybe have transferable skills. So, you know, when you're when you're
when you're doing that pivot, just just keep that in mind is that, you know, the team does
have a specific composition of experience they're looking for. And so,
you know, you, you might have to work harder for it, but you can get it.
Does anyone else so have anything to contribute about sort of cross domain data science hiring?
I think you made a great point that doesn't really get talked about enough.
Is that especially when you're coming from recruiting, you don't know how,
like one of the big questions I ask every interview is, what's the team structure?
You don't know if you're the first person, they're starting brand new team or second or
however big the team is. So I think that's something that needs to be taken to account as
even if you're willing to show that you're you want to learn. For me, anyway, I want to make
sure there's something else I can actually learn from. I don't want to be just learning by myself.
I want to have something that's being done. So that's a big part for me that I think that you
briefly touched on that I wanted to touch upon more. Excellent point. So I think from my experience,
the more traditional the industry. I won't say the easier the interview is, but
the less theoretical it's going to be like if you're and I've interviewed with think tax and
everything else and they want to get into this theoretical game or they think you're some
software engineer that's going to develop the new recursive algorithm to solve the traveling
salesman problem. And that's where that's what you can get focused on interviewing banking,
interviewing banking, insurance, health care, all these others. It's basic problem solving.
Yeah, you go through a handful of those stats questions, you know, can you figure out the
average of, you know, some money or whatever? And, you know, how would you segment customers
going into a sports game? I mean, some stuff like that. Those are the how do you think
generic questions, but they have and same thing. I mean, I've been a leader. I've
seen hundreds of resumes and done quite a handful of interviews and
none of that stuff matters to me. And I've seen it in a couple of LinkedIn posts like
and the end of the day is if it's on your resume, you should be prepared to be asked about it.
Rule of thumb number one. Rule of thumb, you know, rule of thumb of your resume. I mean, this is
I'm old school. So I transitioned from the military and we always say your resume should be the 3M
principle, men, money and machinery. How much did you manage and what did you do with it?
Job just laundry list of job descriptions aren't going to get you anywhere.
And to someone's point on here, putting your least significant thing at the bottom disaster.
And in fact, I'm reviewing some random person's resume on one of my discord course channels.
And they put all their courses up on page one and a page two is all their work experience.
And they say to me, we're trying to transition jobs. I'm like, no one's going to get you're
not going to get an offer. You're not going to talk to anybody. And here's why. And so it's
some things like that. But. And I always saw a lot of people don't look for that entry level
data science job. You know, it is literally the one in a million go for that marketing or that
finance or that ops job somewhere basic where you're going to show up. Maybe they want you to
run Excel all day, but you know what? You can go and run R all day and change the game.
And I've done that a couple of places. And now you have bullets on your resume. You don't have
to be there forever. The job you're taking isn't the rest of your life. The job you're taking is,
I don't know, two years, three years. Could be less. I mean, I've spent one year in many jobs.
And it goes fast. Yeah. There's no benchmark. Like, you know,
one of the things like, I don't believe, I don't believe in imposter syndrome. I know people feel
it. I don't believe in it because you know what? There is always somebody that knows way more than
you do down the road. So, so, so stop thinking about that is, do you have the skills and the
requisite experience to do the job you're being asked? That's the question. And that's what you
got to answer. And so, you know, you didn't get asked to put a shuttle on the moon. You got asked
to solve some basic business problems and, you know, that's it. And, you know, thinking so,
are you, can you do that? Are you solving those problems? And does he, do you have experience to
do it or can you reach a little bit? I mean, I've never been fully prepared for every, every job I
ever took. Cause I, you know, it was one of those, you have some basic set of skills and you get
there and you're like, oh boy, this is the more. So you grow a little bit, like every new job
should be a stretch. And if it's not, you know, maybe you're looking for the easy one. I don't
know. But every new job is that way. And I'm going to record this as a pep talk anytime I feel
imposter syndrome. We are not imposters. We just don't know, know everything. And that's okay.
It really is. Sloan, I know you had a question earlier and I can't find it in the chat cause
there's so many awesome comments too. If you want to jump in. Sure. Christy, everything
that you were saying about the people aspect of data science is speaking to me a lot. That's what
I love the most about data science. And I also have most of my background in data science is
also experimentation. But I'm fairly new into my career and I already know that the people aspect
is where I find the most value. And I am starting to do a little bit of mentorship, but I love
to hear more about your path and how you were able to mentor more people and maybe some advice
that you would give someone that knows that that's the path that they want to go down as well.
Yeah. You know, I mean, I gotta say like my journey has been,
I don't want to say, you know, I don't want to say just luck because there's a lot of hard work
that went into it. But there's also a lot of luck, you know. I got lucky while I was in grad school.
I won't tell you my full journey because that would take way too long. We'll just say I went to
I think 13, no, nine colleges and universities over the course of 13 years and five majors.
So yeah, it's complicated. But like when I think about my journey, I got lucky with
starting at Groupon because working there as an intern or a contract analyst is what it was
while I was in grad school allowed me to get in there and make some relationships. And so when I
did graduate from grad school, I was lucky enough to already have established contacts there.
So going back to, I don't remember whose point it was, but the idea that, you know, those
opportunities can come from anywhere. Being creative about where you look for opportunities,
that internship was a tableau gig. I was a tableau administrator. It was miserable. I didn't like
doing it. I didn't do it for very long, but it was the key that got me into my next job at Groupon.
And I had actually worked with my hiring manager briefly, and I tell this story to him, he knows it,
briefly before I left. And I remember I saw the job and it was his job opening, and I was like,
oh gosh, Chris, he's kind of weird, is what my first impression of my future boss and mentor was.
But I decided to do a Google search on him. And turns out that he is someone who really cares
about building teams and trust and communication and all those core tenets of what makes great
teams great. And that was, that's the thing that he's committed to. And so I had a great mentor
right off the bat. He, fun fact, he had a two hour commute home, like to and from the office
every day. He took the Metra in and out. And so on the Metra here in Chicago, he taught himself R
so that he could be a better coach for me, knowing that I was a new grad in my role.
And like, so that's the kind of boss you want to find. And that's how I got lucky. But part of it
was intentional. I Googled him and he had an online presence and I knew that that was his brand and
that was what he was about. And I got a lot of growth there. I mean, he used to joke halfheartedly
that, you know, he only knows three things. It's probably like 10 things. Neither of us
have written them down. But those core tenets that he taught me, you know, about community,
about growth, about resolving conflict, about, you know, learning and friction and building trust.
Those are all things that I learned from him. So again, like I said, just build relationships.
And the rest is gravy.
Definitely. Thanks, Christy. I like Zach's comment then. That's not luck, then. It's
research. Fair. Well, if you would have heard my text screen, you'd agree with me that it was luck.
I see that people were commenting about different titles for data science
jobs. And Louie said, yeah, call me what you want to call me. But I had a question. Someone
had reached out to me from a large insurance company and they have this role data science
engineer that people just they just haven't been finding candidates for. And we were wondering if
it could also be like that title doesn't come up as much for people on their job search.
Yeah. It's a lot of creativity and titles right now. I thought like we had kind of
landed into settled, settled territory. But there's what we got. We've got data science
engineer is a new one to me. I haven't heard that one. I think another one that's kind of
controversial right now is decision science. What's the difference between a decision scientist
What's the difference between a decision scientist and a data scientist?
My last title was decision scientist. And I still can't tell you.
My guess is that you tend to see decision science and logistics a little bit more.
We tend to deal with metric soup more often. But yeah, I mean, I personally I don't think titles
are important. Again, like I'm focused on what I'm doing. And so if I'm doing what I want to be
doing, and I'm paid fairly, then that's that's what I'm mostly concerned about. And then I'm
growing, then pointed in the direction that I want to be and then I'm making progress.
But, you know, I guess I would ask myself, how is a data science engineer different from a data
scientist? And what kind of a candidate are you trying to attract?
Yeah. I think it maybe could be a mismatch of the title, because I wonder if I think the role is
actually for like, administrating data science tools for them. I'm not sure. I see. Yeah. Yeah.
That's a tough one. I mean, I think that person would probably be a little bit more if they're
implementing data science tools, or administrating and implementing. I've seen them usually as
an analyst or a developer position, I think, engineer, I think, data science and engineer,
it's like almost putting two really, like, not well defined terms together,
making it even less well defined. Yeah, I mean, nobody's, nobody's sure to apply for it.
Does and I'm not sure what an engineer does. No, but um, yeah, I think there's an opportunity to
be a little bit more creative and targeted in there. Yeah, definitely. Okay, I'm scrolling
through the chat to see if there are any other questions I missed. Just gonna put it out there
to everyone to raise your hand if I missed you. I'm sorry if I did. I love this conversation
today. Christy, thank you so much. Thank you for having me. It's one of my favorite things to talk
about. This is great. Okay, I'll give people a few more seconds to jump in with last question.
But Christy, what's the best way for people to follow up with you if they have other questions?
Is it LinkedIn or Twitter? What do you prefer? I'm pretty active on LinkedIn. One of my goals
this year is to figure out how to use Twitter. I've had a few false starts.
We can, I'll share your LinkedIn through the Data Science Hangout group. But also just want
to remind people that we have that. So if there's certain conversations that you want to continue,
there's the Data Science Hangout community group on LinkedIn. Let me put that in the chat
here again. Here we go. Thank you all so much for doing one thing. If that's
it's having something in your background for a Zoom interview. I've got a football shirt back
there and interview. You can talk about five, ten minutes. Talks about like getting you,
they'll ask you about it, get you talking about it and it helps you like sort of calm down.
So because of course you're at home for Zoom interviews, you can sort of help dictate what's
in the background. So that's something I found quite useful.
That is a graduate process, a professional.
I can talk about plants.
Erin, I see you had your hand raised too.
Yeah, earlier when we were talking about LinkedIn, one thing I started to notice was that
LinkedIn, one thing I struggle with is what to put on LinkedIn versus what to put on your resume.
Mine's kind of a jumbled mess. So do you have any kind of guidelines on how much you should put on
LinkedIn versus your resume? Yeah, I mean, I think it probably depends on the depth and breadth of
your background and what you want to highlight. For example, I'm not a PhD. I don't have a lot of
research or publications to share. So for me, what I showcase is going to be a little bit different
than what someone who comes from a research background might showcase. But I would say,
my LinkedIn profile is almost a carbon copy of my resume.
Just not as updated. Maybe a little bit more brief. No, it's the same, I think. I don't pay much
attention to it, as you can tell. It has the essential information. And then a couple of
maybe articles that I was featured in where I talked about the work that I was doing.
Enough context so that somebody understands what it is that I do and what I have to offer.
For me, I view my LinkedIn as a way for me to connect with people that I'm interested in
connecting with. But also, as far as I'm concerned, it's also just the minimum information
that a recruiter needs to determine whether or not I'm someone they want to connect with.
I see some people literally just have a title and that's it. No description. And some
people go into a book for each position. So I just wondered if you had a preference.
Oh, yeah. I think that, I mean, because I have, and this isn't a humble brag, it's just
I have a ton of recruiters reach out to me all of the time. And I think that that is
an artifact largely of my network that I've developed. People that I'm connected to,
people that I maintain relationships and my activity on LinkedIn. I think that those things
all drive. I mean, it's not like my first job was at Facebook. My first job was at Groupon.
I mean, there was a moment there where they almost got delisted. It's not, I mean,
they have a good reputation for developing good technical people, but it's not a huge successful
name. So yeah, I put my effort into my personal relationships and my professional relationships.
Thank you. You're welcome. And do you think it's helpful when people introduce themselves
through LinkedIn too, and like the little bio that's there? Yeah. But it's nice that
like you can include, I don't know, your favorite posts that will be featured at the top. So
everybody sees those too. Yeah. Yep. That's good advice. I didn't even know you could do that.
I think I spend too much time on LinkedIn.
But yeah, but also connecting with people that are in like the area that you want to get into
too, because I think that if once you like their posts or comment on them,
other people will see you in that area too. They'll reach out and connect with you.
And while we're on the topic of LinkedIn, one other thing that I think is really helpful is
if someone does connect with you, to always say like, thank you for connecting and just open the
door to conversation with them because you don't know why they were coming to your profile. And
maybe they don't want to just like reach out and ask you a question right away, but at least saying
something to them kind of opens the door to that. Awesome. Well, thank you so much, Christy,
for joining us and sharing all your insights. Thank you all for all the questions too.
Thank you so much for having me.